Added cctp-bridge overview.md (#393)
wormhole-foundation/wormhole-docs: products/cctp-bridge/overview.md

---
title: CCTP Bridge with Wormhole
description: Learn how the integration of Circle's CCTP with Wormhole enables secure and efficient native USDC transfers and complex cross-chain interactions.
categories: Transfer
---

# CCTP with Wormhole Overview 

> The integration of [Circle's Cross-Chain Transfer Protocol (CCTP)](https://www.circle.com/cross-chain-transfer-protocol){target=\_blank}  with the Wormhole messaging protocol creates a robust system for securely and efficiently transferring native USDC across different blockchain networks while enabling more complex multichain interactions. This combination streamlines the movement of stablecoins, reduces risk, and unlocks new possibilities for decentralized applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The integration of [Circle's Cross-Chain Transfer Protocol (CCTP)](https://www.circle.com/cross-chain-transfer-protocol){target=\_blank} with the Wormhole messaging protocol creates a robust system for securely and efficiently transferring native USDC across different blockchain networks while enabling more complex multichain interactions. This combination streamlines the movement of stablecoins, reduces risk, and unlocks new possibilities for decentralized applications.
```

## Key Features

- **Secure native USDC transfers** - at its core, CCTP provides a "burn-and-mint" mechanism for transferring native USDC. This eliminates the need for wrapped assets and the associated risks of intermediary bridges

> - **Generic cross-chain messaging** - wormhole acts as a powerful communication layer, allowing for the transmission of arbitrary data between blockchains

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Generic cross-chain messaging** - Wormhole acts as a powerful communication layer, allowing for the transmission of arbitrary data between blockchains
```

Reviewer: This seems not specific to CCTP, how can we tie it into CCTP?

- **Atomic execution** - by combining CCTP and Wormhole, the transfer of USDC and the execution of accompanying instructions on the destination chain can occur as a single, atomic transaction
- **Enhanced composability** - developers can build more sophisticated cross-chain applications by sending additional data alongside the USDC transfer

## How It Works

Imagine a user wants to move USDC from a source chain to a destination chain and trigger an action there. This is what that flow would look like:

> 1.  **Initiation on source chain** - user on source chain dApp initiates native USDC transfer and specifies action on destination chain
> 2.  **CCTP burn and Wormhole Message** - Wormhole packages CCTP burn of native USDC on source chain and destination chain action instructions
> 3.  **Circle attestation** -  Circle's attestation service confirms the USDC burn on the source chain and issues a cryptographic signature
> 4.  **Wormhole relayer network** - Guardians sign and relay burn attestation and action instructions to the destination chain
> 5.  **Message delivery and CCTP mint** - Circle's attestation in Wormhole message triggers CCTP mint of native USDC on the destination chain after verification
> 6.  **Automated action** - action on destination chain executes if included in Wormhole message, potentially using new USDC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Initiation on source chain** - user on source chain dApp initiates native USDC transfer and specifies action on destination chain
2. **CCTP burn and Wormhole message** - Wormhole packages CCTP burn of native USDC on source chain and destination chain action instructions
3. **Circle attestation** -  Circle's attestation service confirms the USDC burn on the source chain and issues a cryptographic signature
4. **Wormhole relayer network** - Guardians sign and relay burn attestation and action instructions to the destination chain
5. **Message delivery and CCTP mint** - Circle's attestation in Wormhole message triggers CCTP mint of native USDC on the destination chain after verification
6. **Automated action** - action on destination chain executes if included in Wormhole message, potentially using new USDC
```

I think the items on the left should be like an action item that's happening. Like initiation on source chain, perfect. CCTP burn (good) and Wormhole message (what about it?). Wormhole relayer network - what about it?

This process highlights how CCTP ensures the secure transfer of native USDC, while Wormhole provides the messaging infrastructure to carry the attestation and enable more complex, automated cross-chain workflows.

> _Note_ Wormhole supports all CCTP chains, however, Circle currently supports a few that you can find listed in [Circles supported domains](https://developers.circle.com/stablecoins/supported-domains). 

Reviewer: We use admonitions for notes. Can find docs on them here: https://papermoonio.github.io/papermoon-mkdocs/style-guide/formatting-organization/notes-and-notices/

## Use Cases

Integrating Wormhole's messaging with CCTP enables the secure transfer of native USDC across blockchains, unlocking key cross-chain use cases, which include:

- **USDC Payments Across Chains**
    - [**CCTP**](/docs/products/cctp-bridge/get-started/) – transfer native USDC using Circle’s burn-and-mint protocol

>     - [**Wormhole SDK**](/docs/tools/typescript-sdk/sdk-reference/) – automate attestation delivery and gas handling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [**Wormhole TypeScript SDK**](/docs/tools/typescript-sdk/sdk-reference/) – automate attestation delivery and gas handling
```

There's multiple SDKs, so it's good to specify

    - [**Connect**](/docs/products/connect/overview/) – embed multichain USDC transfers directly in your app

> - **USDC Powered Multichain Settlement**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **USDC-Powered Multichain Settlement**
```

    - [**Settlement**](/docs/products/settlement/overview/) – use the Liquidity Layer to settle intents with native USDC

>     - [**Wormhole SDK**](/docs/tools/typescript-sdk/sdk-reference/) – initiate transfers, discover routes, and execute swaps seamlessly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [**Wormhole TypeScript SDK**](/docs/tools/typescript-sdk/sdk-reference/) – initiate transfers, discover routes, and execute swaps seamlessly
```

---
title: CCTP Bridge with Wormhole
description: Learn how the integration of Circle's CCTP with Wormhole enables secure and efficient native USDC transfers and complex cross-chain interactions.
categories: Transfer
---

# CCTP with Wormhole Overview 

The integration of [Circle's Cross-Chain Transfer Protocol (CCTP)](https://www.circle.com/cross-chain-transfer-protocol){target=\_blank} with the Wormhole messaging protocol creates a robust system for securely and efficiently transferring native USDC across different blockchain networks while enabling more complex multichain interactions. This combination streamlines the movement of stablecoins, reduces risk, and unlocks new possibilities for decentralized applications.

## Key Features

- **Secure native USDC transfers** - at its core, CCTP provides a "burn-and-mint" mechanism for transferring native USDC. This eliminates the need for wrapped assets and the associated risks of intermediary bridges

> - **Generic cross-chain messaging** - Wormhole acts as a powerful communication layer, allowing for the transmission of arbitrary data between blockchains

Reviewer 2: this is not a CCTP feature
```suggestion
```

- **Atomic execution** - by combining CCTP and Wormhole, the transfer of USDC and the execution of accompanying instructions on the destination chain can occur as a single, atomic transaction
- **Enhanced composability** - developers can build more sophisticated cross-chain applications by sending additional data alongside the USDC transfer

> 

Reviewer 2: to the key features add Automated relaying, Gas payment on the destination chain and Gas drop off 
you can take the info from here https://wormhole.com/docs/learn/transfers/cctp/

> ^^Specific features for cctp: 
> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## How It Works

Imagine a user wants to move USDC from a source chain to a destination chain and trigger an action there. This is what that flow would look like:

> 1.  **Initiation on source chain** - user on source chain dApp initiates native USDC transfer and specifies action on destination chain

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  **Initiation on source chain** - a user on the source chain initiates a USDC transfer and specifies the action on the destination chain
```

> 2.  **CCTP burn and package** - Wormhole packages CCTP burn of native USDC on the source chain and the destination chain action instructions

Reviewer 2: this sentence sounds wird to mean, "packages CCTP burn" what does it mean

> 3.  **Circle attests** -  Circle's attestation service confirms the USDC burn on the source chain and issues a cryptographic signature

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3.  **Circle attestation** -  Circle's attestation service confirms the USDC burn on the source chain and issues a signature
```
I'd say in blockchain it's a given that signatures are cryptographic

> 4.  **Guardians relay** - Guardians sign and relay burn attestation and action instructions to the destination chain

Reviewer 2: Guardians don't relay anything, Guardians just sign and verify and broadcast the VAAs, Relayers pick them up and do the relaying
check this out https://miro.com/welcomeonboard/WUJlc2V2d1l5cjhRRTdqOFJjN2NnNndINXZRRGlPT0FkZ3hKUjRINmdMcXpDZWkzV0hXM0doZldNTUoySFZPbFQzNVEwdlZUS2xtdG10QklWY1cvQXhuUzVlYXJUOWx3V3ZxaWI5NzIyNExPazFvVTNXejlmTkxVTkJybERpRXlBS2NFMDFkcUNFSnM0d3FEN050ekl3PT0hdjE=?share_link_id=87518850882

> 5.  **Mint and verify** - Circle's attestation in Wormhole message triggers CCTP mint of native USDC on the destination chain after verification

Reviewer 2: what's Wormhole message, messaging, a VAA? what were you trying to say here
also no need to say native USDC just write USDC

---
title: CCTP Bridge with Wormhole
description: Learn how the integration of Circle's CCTP with Wormhole enables secure and efficient native USDC transfers and complex cross-chain interactions.

> categories: CCTP, Wormhole, Transfer

Reviewer: I don't think CCTP or Wormhole are accepted categories. But perhaps we should add CCTP - @ilariae ?

Reviewer 3: These are the current categories:
`["NTT", "Connect", "Token-Bridge", "Settlement", "Relayers", "MultiGov", "Queries", "Transfer", "Solidity-SDK", "Typescript-SDK"]`

You can find them here: `wormhole-docs/scripts/llms_config.json`

> categories: CCTP, Wormhole, Transfer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
categories: Transfer
```

---

# CCTP with Wormhole Overview 

> The integration of Circle's Cross-Chain Transfer Protocol (CCTP) with the Wormhole messaging protocol creates a robust system for securely and efficiently transferring native USDC across different blockchain networks while enabling more complex cross-chain interactions. This combination streamlines the movement of stablecoins, reduces risk, and unlocks new possibilities for decentralized applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The integration of [Circle's Cross-Chain Transfer Protocol (CCTP)](https://www.circle.com/cross-chain-transfer-protocol){target=\_blank} with the Wormhole messaging protocol creates a robust system for securely and efficiently transferring native USDC across different blockchain networks while enabling more complex cross-chain interactions. This combination streamlines the movement of stablecoins, reduces risk, and unlocks new possibilities for decentralized applications.
```

Nice to add links to external websites for additional context

> The integration of Circle's Cross-Chain Transfer Protocol (CCTP) with the Wormhole messaging protocol creates a robust system for securely and efficiently transferring native USDC across different blockchain networks while enabling more complex cross-chain interactions. This combination streamlines the movement of stablecoins, reduces risk, and unlocks new possibilities for decentralized applications.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The integration of Circle's Cross-Chain Transfer Protocol (CCTP) with the Wormhole messaging protocol creates a robust system for securely and efficiently transferring native USDC across different blockchain networks while enabling more complex multichain interactions. This combination streamlines the movement of stablecoins, reduces risk, and unlocks new possibilities for decentralized applications.
```

## Key Features

**Secure Native USDC Transfers (CCTP)** - At its core, CCTP provides a "burn-and-mint" mechanism for transferring native USDC. This eliminates the need for wrapped assets and the associated risks of intermediary bridges.

**Generic Cross-Chain Messaging (Wormhole)** - Wormhole acts as a powerful communication layer, allowing for the transmission of arbitrary data between blockchains.

**Atomic Execution** - By combining CCTP and Wormhole, the transfer of USDC and the execution of accompanying instructions on the destination chain can occur as a single, atomic transaction.

> **Enhanced Composability** - Developers can build more sophisticated cross-chain applications by sending additional data alongside the USDC transfer.

Reviewer: The list formatting here needs to be fixed up per the style guide: https://github.com/papermoonio/documentation-style-guide/blob/main/style-guide.md#list-formatting

One thing the style guide doesn't mention is that the titles on the left should be in sentence case instead of title case

## How It Works

Imagine a user wants to move USDC from Ethereum to Polygon and simultaneously trigger a swap on a DEX.

> 1.  **Initiation on Source Chain:** The user initiates the transfer of native USDC on Ethereum through a dApp integrated with both CCTP and Wormhole. The application also defines the swap action to be executed on Polygon.

Reviewer: This list formatting also needs to be updated please

> 2.  **CCTP Burn and Wormhole Message:** The specified amount of native USDC is burned on Ethereum via CCTP. Simultaneously, Wormhole packages the details of the CCTP burn event along with the instructions for the swap on Polygon into a cross-chain message.

Reviewer: We can make some of these steps more concise, like: "USDC is burned on Ethereum via CCTP, and Wormhole packages the burn details and swap instructions for Polygon into a cross-chain message."

3.  **Circle Attestation:** Circle's attestation service confirms the USDC burn on Ethereum and issues a cryptographic signature.

> 4.  **Wormhole Relayer Network:** Wormhole guardians observe the burn event and Circle's attestation. They then sign and relay the message containing the attestation and the swap instructions to the target chain (Polygon).

Reviewer: Guardian(s) is always capitalized

Reviewer: Feels weird to say target chain in this step but not in step 1 or 2

5.  **Message Delivery and CCTP Mint:** On Polygon, the Wormhole message is received and verified by the Wormhole core contract. The CCTP integration on Polygon uses Circle's attestation within the Wormhole message to mint the equivalent amount of native USDC.

> 6.  **Automated Action (Optional):** If included in the Wormhole message, the swap instruction is then executed on the designated DEX on Polygon, potentially utilizing the newly arrived USDC.

Reviewer: The "designated DEX" part seems too specific. What about someone transferring funds to interact with some other type of application?

> 

Reviewer: Would love to have a diagram of this flow. @ilariae I know I've asked about this before and clearly I keep forgetting haha, but can we use mermaid? Or do we need to mock this up and send to designer?

Reviewer 2: yeah we can use mermaid

Reviewer: @Telucero I just added support for mermaid in mkdocs, so if you pull the latest changes in the `staging-new-ia` branch in the mkdocs repo, you can throw in a mermaid diagram. I just use ChatGPT to help me create mermaid diagrams. You can also use this fun tool to take a look at it before adding it to the docs (sometimes can be helpful): https://mermaid.live/

But just note that there are certain features of mermaid that aren't supported in the specific plugin we're using, so if it doesn't render on the page that could be an issue.

Also here are a few examples in the polkadot docs:
- System parachains at a glance diagram - [live example](https://docs.polkadot.com/polkadot-protocol/architecture/system-chains/overview/#existing-system-chains) / [relevant code](https://github.com/polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs/blob/master/polkadot-protocol/architecture/system-chains/overview.md?plain=1#L25-L47)
- Path of a parachain block - [live example](https://docs.polkadot.com/polkadot-protocol/architecture/parachains/consensus/#path-of-a-parachain-block) / [relevant code](https://github.com/polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs/blob/master/polkadot-protocol/architecture/parachains/consensus.md?plain=1#L49-L67)

> This process highlights how CCTP ensures the secure transfer of native USDC, while Wormhole provides the messaging infrastructure to carry the attestation and enable more complex, automated cross-chain workflows.

Reviewer: Nice summary

> ## Use Cases

Reviewer: These examples need to be updated

    - [**Messaging**](/docs/products/messaging/get-started/){target=\_blank} – coordinates loan requests, repayments, and liquidation events involving native USDC across chains
    - [**Queries**](/docs/products/queries/get-started/){target=\_blank} – can fetch interest rates and native USDC collateral values from different chains

- **Simplified User Onboarding with Native USDC**
    - [**Wormhole Connect**](/docs/products/connect/get-started/){target=\_blank} – provides a user-friendly interface for onboarding users with native USDC from other chains
    - [**Native Token Transfer**](/docs/products/native-token-transfers/get-started/){target=\_blank} – facilitates the direct transfer of native USDC to new users on different chains

- **Cross-Chain Payments and Settlement with Native USDC**
    - [**Wormhole Connect**](/docs/products/connect/get-started/){target=\_blank} – facilitates seamless payments in native USDC across various networks
    - [**Native Token Transfer**](/docs/products/native-token-transfers/get-started/){target=\_blank} – ensures direct, native USDC transfers for payments and settlement

> ## Next Steps

Reviewer: The formatting of the list items in this section needs to be updated. Also the links should use the relative paths and shouldn't point to the live site

Reviewer: I think some of the links in this section should be revisited. What do we really want to point users to next? This is pretty important

> Now that you're familiar with the enhanced cross-chain USDC transfers enabled by CCTP and Wormhole—it’s time to put it into action. Whether you're a developer or DeFi builder, you can integrate this powerful technology into your app in just a few steps. Dive into our hands-on tutorials and start building:

Reviewer: I would scrap some of this extra wordiness. Let's keep it as concise as possible and remove the fluff

> - [Transfer USDC via CCTP and Wormhole SDK](https://wormhole.com/docs/tutorials/typescript-sdk/usdc-via-cctp/){target=\_blank}—Follow our step-by-step guide to move native USDC across chains using the Wormhole SDK and CCTP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Transfer USDC via CCTP and Wormhole SDK](https://wormhole.com/docs/tutorials/typescript-sdk/usdc-via-cctp/){target=\_blank} - follow a step-by-step guide to move native USDC across chains using the Wormhole SDK and CCTP
```

avoid "we", "let's", "our"

- [Interacting with CCTP Contracts](https://wormhole.com/docs/build/transfers/cctp/){target=\_blank} – Learn how to integrate with Wormhole's CCTP contracts in your smart contracts for advanced cross-chain USDC functionality

If you want to gain a deeper understanding of the underlying technology:

- [Messaging Infrastructure:](https://wormhole.com/docs/learn/messaging/){target=\_blank}Familiarize yourself with Wormhole's fundamental cross-chain communication protocol, which enables the transfer of arbitrary data between blockchains, a key component for CCTP integration

> - [Multichain Transfers:](https://wormhole.com/docs/learn/transfers/){target=\_blank} Review the "Learn" section on "Multichain Transfers" to grasp the broader concepts of how Wormhole facilitates asset movement across different networks, providing context for how CCTP for USDC fits into the larger ecosystem

Reviewer: This page is getting removed

> Test it, build it, and unlock seamless native USDC transfers across chains. The infrastructure is ready—now it’s your move.

Reviewer: Not sure about this sentence
